Luke here with the Out Boys YouTube
channel and welcome to the interior of
Alaska I'm going to be camping in the
snow without a tent for the next 3 days
I'll be building survival shelters
sleeping under animal hides making
Bushcraft projects next to the fire and
cooking amazing food
[Music]
well we've had a really weird winter
here in Alaska and it's been cold then
hot then cold again but the good news is
the snow's not too deep and the swamps
are all Frozen so I can really get out
and explore places I otherwise couldn't
access
[Music]
I got myself pretty wet looks like
there's a little ditch or creek here so
I stopped to get out and walk it before
I tried to take the K truck into it and
there's a booby trap right
here look at
that is just snow floating on water then
I walked onto it and sunk into mud up to
here I think I'll just go around
been driving around for about 2 and 1/2
hours and I think it's about time to
look for a place to
[Applause]
Camp yeah there we
go look around for some dead
trees it's going to be Pitch Black by
400 p.m. today I have about an hour and
a half before Sunset and it's really
hard to find dead trees in the dark
[Music]
there's an invasive Beetle called the
Japanese Spruce bark Beetle it's wiping
out a lot of the spruce trees in this
area so a lot of the trees are sick or
dead in the summertime this place is a
massive forest fire hazard so burning up
the dead trees in the winter time can
actually be a real good thing
seems like a lot of wood but it's not if
you want to keep warm for 18 hours of
Darkness Plus have a shelter it takes a
lot Sun's setting I got to bust out my
lights I use these bicycle lights that
have a GoPro
Mount I got this on a trip to Kyoto when
Tommy was just little
[Music]
got to get a fire going and dry my pants
off it's not a big deal while I'm moving
around but once I stop to eat dinner
it's going to get real cold
always got to make sure to put your
flint and steel away so easy to get
focused on the fire and then drop it in
the snow and lose
it everything's covered in snow
everything's covered in ice and snow so
I put the firewood around the fire until
it starts to catch then I put it out and
stack it up next to the fire
[Music]
I don't have enough limbs to cover it
all the way to the top but that'll make
a good wind break
all this wood covered in ice and snow
we're going to prop it up against the
Heat Flector and dry it
out
oh just looked at my clock and it's
7:30 so just about 5 hours to cut down
all these trees and build this shelter
pretty proud of that that's uh it's a
lot of wood I cut shelter is obviously
not as good as it could be but it's good
as it's going to be tonight hang up my
clothes and let them
dry gloves are wet boots are wet these
logs are frozen and covered in ice makes
them really cold and it's going to get
me wet so we got to dry them
there you go I brought some Caribou
hides to sleep on I'm getting old I need
I need
padding brought along a buffalo hide to
as a
blanket tired need to get some dinner
made
tell you what I really like these heat
reflectors when you build a wall behind
your fire it absorbs the heat of the
fire and then reflects it back towards
you but more importantly it acts as a
wind break and keeps the wind from
blowing the smoke in your face it's
really
nice all right for dinner I've got moose
fajitas I prepped up all the meat and
Seasonings and vegetables and everything
in this little package and froze it now
I'm just going to put it in a pot of
boiling water to heat it back up not a
bad meal when you don't have time to do
fancy
stuff got a moose vitao with a little
bit of
guacamole oh I'm hungry it's about 900
p.m. I haven't eaten since
breakfast
M oh that's good all right let's do the
dishes I have a little bit of firewood
but not enough to get me through the
rest of the night I need to go cut some
more firewood
I'm going to sit here and eat some
chocolate covered almonds and dry my
boots out oh I'm so tired oh it's
already 10 p.m. I got to get to bed here
soon oh if I go to bed with wet socks my
feet are going to be so cold and if I
don't dry my boots out they'll freeze in
the morning and I won't be able to get
them on cuz they'll just be like as
solid as a rock now I've got to go and
dry out my boots dry out my pants dry
out my
socks at that steam coming off
there all right it's time to cuddle up
with my Buffalo hide go to
sleep probably have to stoke the fire
every 3 4 hours but that's pretty normal
all right guys I'll see you in the
morning
hey good morning oh this Fire's been
keeping this place really warm keep
forgetting how cold it is and then the
fire will die down I'll be like dang
it's really cold
out long as the fire is roaring this
place holds the heat pretty well all
right I think it's time to get up try to
make some breakfast
[Music]
going to rub some butter on this warm
tortilla and put cinnamon sugar on
it that's good if you ever had cinnamon
toast or a soap AIA kind of tastes like
that got some steel cut Irish oatmeal
here this the good stuff little butter
brown sugar and raisins
it's about 9:30 in the morning and you
can start to see a little bit of light
out Sun's going to rise in about 45
minutes oh well that was good I got to
do the dishes
now it's about 10:00 and looks like the
sun's up need to get to work here
all righty
[Music]
right
this thatching only does a marginal job
of keeping the wind out but once you get
a little bit of snow on top of it then
it's absolutely airtight the trick is
that you got to make it thick enough and
far enough away from the fire that when
you got a nice big roaring fire in here
you don't have drips of water from
melting snow hopefully we got it right
well that's not too shabby that's a
proper wall I think the next thing I
want to do is improve my bed it was a
little bit narrow last night I kept
trying to roll off and I wouldn't mind
having that foot rest a bit bigger
too dry out this log before I put it in
my bed
I piled up a bunch of logs over there as
a bit of a Windbreak to keep cold air
from going underneath my bed now they
got the shelter built I don't think it's
really necessary so I'm going to use
that for my firewood tonight
shelter's feeling nice and tidy the
bed's feeling better I got more of a
platform got some firewood drying I
think it's time to eat some food
a friend of mine gave me these hot dogs
I think they're made out of caribou
excited to try them
out M oh smell
good that's a good hot dog
I think I worked up a two hot dog
appetite but I want to do a little
project I want to build a cooking
griddle this is a 22 gauge weldable
steel that's not very
even it's an ugly freehand oval right
there
I got this little stump Anvil right
here you don't need anything fancy like
this A rock will
do just put a little lip on the edge of
it knocked off all the sharp bits now
it's uh really stiff and rigid and uh
your food won't spill off the edge got a
little bit of Steel Rod here heat that
up in the fire
there we go
[Music]
all right
that's a little griddle it's kind of
ugly shaped but that's what happens when
you do it freehand but now I got to
season it got a little peanut
oil and get the handles
too let that
bake do a couple layers
[Music]
seasoned frying pan it's ready for
cooking well it's about 6:30 and I think
it's time for dinner so for dinner I got
something special got king crab legs
last winter I went up to gnome with my
son Nathan and we caught king crab
through the
ice I've got this little jar with garlic
and butter in it just kind of Loos in
the lid sit that right by the
fire look at the size of that crab
leg oh that was so warm and delicious
when you cook the crabs over the fire
too it makes their shells brittle makes
it a lot easier to Shell them you just
use your
hands you got to eat quick things cool
off really quick around
here look at that that's just from one
knuckle barely fits in the
jar oh that's messy but good
got a full belly and a big fire going to
listen to an audiobook just kind of
relax for an hour or so before
bedtime oh it's getting late I should
hop into bed definitely feel like this
shelter is a lot warmer than yesterday
the air is just not moving as much I got
the heat reflecting off this sidew wall
and and the whole thing's just a better
Wind
Block it's nice having a little bit more
of a platform to stand on got more room
to dry my
boots forgot to dry my socks out before
going to bed but uh with this nice
little step right here I can just stick
my feet out they're all nice and toasty
I'm going to put the camera down I'll
see you guys in a little
bit had to stoked the fire a couple
times but stayed warm but my back is
sore oh oh my back feel like I was run
over by a truck but I'm
warm well it's about 7:30 I think it's
time to go test out that gridle and make
some
breakfast okay
corn beef
hash oh it's so
[Applause]
Frozen yeah it's pretty non thick slid
right off
[Music]
corn beef and hash egg
sandwich
M oh that is so good tell you what that
little Skillet worked really well pretty
easy to make too
oh that was delicious I wouldn't mind
another one of
those tell you that was a good meal I'm
definitely going to have to do that one
again but uh I think it's time to get
packed up I'm going to try to get home
by 12: and I've got a long way to drive
to get there so I think I better not
wait for the sun to come up I'll tell
you what I liked my little Grill
worked really well all
right this is a really nice shelter I'm
curious to see how it performs in bad
weather though maybe I can come back
during a snowstorm and see how the
shelter
does all
right all right let's see if the car
starts when it gets really cold my K
truck freezes up and won't start but uh
it's a bit of a ways home so uh
hopefully it'll start up on me
ah sure is nice when things
work yeah you definitely want to make
sure that car is working before you put
your fire
out all
right got to work out my backing up
if you like that video make sure to
check out the outdoor Boys YouTube
channel where we have hundreds of videos
just like this and if you want to see
our newest Adventures make sure to click
subscribe so you'll get notifications